.TH MESHCLI 1 "May 05 2026" "meshcore-cli 1.5.7" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
meshcli \- CLI interface to MeshCore companion radios and repeaters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B meshcli
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMANDS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B meshcli
(also available as
.B meshcore-cli
) is a command line interface to interact with MeshCore companion radios and repeaters
over BLE, TCP, or Serial connections.

It allows you to send commands to your companion radio node, manage contacts, send/receive
messages, and interact with repeaters in both interactive and scripted modes.

The default behavior (with no commands) enters interactive chat mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help information and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-S
Scan for available BLE devices and show an interactive selector.
.TP
.B \-l
List available BLE/serial devices and exit.
.TP
.B \-j
Enable JSON output for all commands (disables init file).
.TP
.B \-D
Enable debug logging output.
.TP
.B \-T \fITIMEOUT\fR
Set BLE scan timeout in seconds (default: 2s). Used with \-S and \-l.
.TP
.B \-a \fIADDRESS\fR
Specify device address (can be MAC address, UUID, or device name).
.TP
.B \-d \fINAME\fR
Filter MeshCore devices by name or address.
.TP
.B \-P
Force pairing via the OS.
.TP
.B \-t \fIHOSTNAME\fR
Connect via TCP/IP instead of BLE.
.TP
.B \-p \fIPORT\fR
Specify TCP port (default: 5000).
.TP
.B \-s \fIPORT\fR
Use serial port for connection (e.g., /dev/ttyUSB0).
.TP
.B \-b \fIBAUDRATE\fR
Specify serial port baud rate.
.TP
.B \-r
Enable raw repeater mode (serial direct to repeater firmware CLI).
.TP
.B \-C
Toggle classic mode for prompt display.
.TP
.B \-c \fION|OFF\fR
Enable or disable color output.

.SH COMMANDS
.SS General Commands
.TP
.B chat
Enter interactive chat mode (default with no commands).
.TP
.B chat_to \fICONTACT\fR
Enter chat mode with a specific contact.
.TP
.B script \fIFILENAME\fR
Execute commands from a script file.
.TP
.B infos
Print information about the connected node.
.TP
.B ver
Display firmware version.
.TP
.B reboot
Reboot the connected device.
.TP
.B clock
Display or sync device time.

.SS Messaging Commands
.TP
.B msg \fINAME\fR \fIMESSAGE\fR
Send a message to a contact by name.
.TP
.B chan \fICHANNEL\fR \fIMESSAGE\fR
Send message to a specific channel.
.TP
.B public \fIMESSAGE\fR
Send message to public channel (0).
.TP
.B recv
Read next received message.
.TP
.B wait_msg
Wait for a message and display it.

.SS Contact Management
.TP
.B list
List all available contacts.
.TP
.B to \fICONTACT\fR
Set current recipient for messages.

.SS Repeater Commands
.TP
.B login \fINAME\fR \fIPASSWORD\fR
Login to a repeater.
.TP
.B logout \fINAME\fR
Logout from a repeater.
.TP
.B cmd \fINAME\fR \fICOMMAND\fR
Send a command to a repeater.

.SS Advanced
.TP
.B trace \fIPATH\fR
Run a path trace to visualize signal strength along a route.
.TP
.B help
Display help information.
.TP
.B ?COMMAND
Get detailed help for a specific command.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.TP
.B $HOME/.config/meshcore/default_address
Stores the MAC address or UUID of the last used BLE device.
.TP
.B $HOME/.config/meshcore/init
Global initialization script executed before commands.
.TP
.B $HOME/.config/meshcore/<device-name>.init
Device-specific initialization script.
.TP
.B $HOME/.config/meshcore/history
REPL command history for interactive mode.

.SH OUTPUT MODES
Commands can be prefixed with a dot (.)
to force JSON output instead of human-readable output. Alternatively, use the
.B \-j
flag to enable JSON output globally.

Example: `meshcli .clock` outputs JSON format, while `meshcli clock` outputs text.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Select and connect to a BLE device:
.B meshcli \-S chat
.TP
Get device information in JSON format:
.B meshcli \-j infos
.TP
Send a message to a contact:
.B meshcli msg mycontact "Hello there"
.TP
Connect via TCP and check device time:
.B meshcli \-t 192.168.1.100 \-p 5000 clock
.TP
Connect to a repeater via serial and enter interactive mode:
.B meshcli \-r \-s /dev/ttyUSB0
.TP
Execute a command script:
.B meshcli script commands.txt

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Florent de Lamotte <florent@frizoncorrea.fr>

.SH SEE ALSO
.B meshcore-cli
is an alias to
.B meshcli
.

For more information visit: https://github.com/fdlamotte/meshcore-cli

.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See LICENSE file in the source repository.
